# CS-305-Software-Security

# Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address?
In this scenario, the client, Artemis Financial, requested a number of security improvements to be implemented by my company, Global Rain. Specifically, Artemis Financial requested that our development team provide a means of securely transferring financial data in transit over the web as well as adding a file verification step to the web application to ensure secure communications. Furthermore, they entrusted Global rain to include any other additional security improvements as we saw fit to best secure the web application.

# What did you do very well when you found your client’s software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall wellbeing?
I feel that my implementation of the checksum algorithm did well in providing a flexible means of verifying and validating any transferred data resource. By implementing this algorithm, I've ensured the application meets two criteria: One, that contents of the data have not been altered and two, that the sender of the data is in fact, who they say they are. This is a flexible implementation because other types of encryption ciphers may be easily be substituted in for the current encryption cipher. These types if security improvements can be crucial to establishing a trustworthy relationship between Artemis Financial as they provide financial services to their clients. 

# What part of the vulnerability assessment was challenging or helpful to you?
I had some difficulty at first in successfully running the static testing, as I didn't realize that some code changes needed to be made in order for the code to compile correctly. Once I saw the "todo" steps documented in the code and implemented the missing pieces, I was able to successfully run the static testing. 

# How did you increase layers of security? In the future, what would you use to assess vulnerabilities and decide which mitigation techniques to use?
The changes that were made to improve the security of the application included three areas of interest. One, securing data in transit; two, securing data at rest; and three making recommendations as to the best way to manage the encryption keys used in securing each of the fist two areas of interest. Additionally, known security vulnerabilities were discovered using static testing methods. To mitigate the security vulnerabilities that were discovered, I opted to upgrade as many packages as possible to leverage the bug fixes or patches that have been provided by the vendors of the software dependencies. In the future, I would continue to use static testing to discover known security vulnerabilities and if possible, upgrade any software dependencies as a first step at combating holes in the security of the application.

# How did you make certain the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring the code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?
In my case, I opted to upgrade the applications software dependencies to reduce the number of found security issues. Then I reran the tests to be sure that the new package versions did not include new security vulnerabilities. For the remaining vulnerabilities, I researched what mitigation steps to take from the software developer community. Fortunately, after all the upgrades had been made there was only one found vulnerability, which had been documented as a potential a non-issue, as the validity of the vulnerability had been disputed by the vendor.

# What resources, tools, or coding practices did you use that might be helpful in future assignments or tasks?
Known security vulnerabilities as well as links that provide steps for mitigation can be researched at https://cve.mitre.org/index.html. Other similar research resources include https://owasp.org/www-community/vulnerabilities/ and https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln. The static testing tool that was used in detecting vulnerabilities of this web application is called OWASP Dependency-Check Maven. Static testing can be very helpful in finding known vulnerabilities discovered by the community, however, in addition to static testing one must also take care to review the code base of the application, as other security holes may be present due to poor implementation or misconfigurations, for instance.

# Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to show your skills, knowledge, and experience. What might you show future employers from this assignment?
Again, I can say that I would be happy to share my implementation of the checksum algorithm as a clean, flexible implementation of for verifying and validating a message or piece of data.
